# Class 08

## Access Control (ACL)

### 5 steps to RBAC
1. What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC) and why do we care?

- RBAC is the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role within an organization.
- We care because "with an achievable and time-honored approach, we can’t seem to get a handle on access control. We are certainly being pushed in that direction of RBAC, with all of the major standards, including PCI DSS, HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley all requiring some form of it."
- directly from website <https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html>

2. Describe a Role/Permission heirarchy that you might implement using RBAC.

- Regular users can READ
- Writers can READ and CREATE
- Editors can READ, CREATE, and UPDATE
- Administrators can READ, CREATE, UPDATE, and DELETE

3. What approach might you take to implement RBAC?
- Find out what roles are needed and then what access is needed for each of those roles and implent from there.

1. Inventory your systems
2. Analyze your workforce and create roles
3. Assign people to roles
4. Never make one-off changes
5. Audit

### wiki - RBAC
1. If Authentication is “you are who you say you are,” what is Authorization?

- Role authorization: A subject's active role must be authorized for the subject. With rule 1 above, this rule ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.

2. Name three primary rules defined for RBAC.

- Role assignment: A subject can exercise a permission only if the subject has selected or been assigned a role.
- Role authorization: A subject's active role must be authorized for the subject. With rule 1 above, this rule ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.
- Permission authorization: A subject can exercise a permission only if the permission is authorized for the subject's active role. With rules 1 and 2, this rule ensures that users can exercise only permissions for which they are authorized.

3. Describe RBAC to a non-technical friend.

- role-based access control RBAC or role-based security is an approach to restricting system access to authorized users. It is an approach to implement mandatory access control (MAC) or discretionary access control (DAC).


### RBAC tutorial
1. What Are access rights Associated with? The User? or The Role? Explain.
- Rights are for accessing resource which are associated with the roles and not the user. User must be activated with one or more roles and then they get access to the rights from there.
2. Access Rights, or Authorization, is activated after a user successfully does what?
The rights are not associated with the users, they are associated with the roles, so the rights dont need to be updated with the user.
3. Explain how RBAC might benefit a business.
- The policy does not need to be updated when a certain person with a role leaves the organization, the policy is associated with roles not the user. 
- With new employees they should be able to activate the desired roles.
- revisiting the least privilege:
  - user in one role has access to the subset of the files.
- Switch roles to gain access to other resources.

- Resources:
- [5-steps-to-RBAC](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)
- [wiki-RBAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)
- [RBAC-tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4NP8Eon3cA)

## Things I want to know more about
Implenting it.
