# Class 39

## Redux - Additional Topics

### Redux Toolkit(RTK)

1. What concerns are addressed by Redux Toolkit?

- "Configuring a Redux store is too complicated"
- "I have to add a lot of packages to get Redux to do anything useful"
- "Redux requires too much boilerplate code"

2. What does configureStore() do?

- wraps createStore to provide simplified configuration options and good defaults. It can automatically combine your slice reducers, adds whatever Redux middleware you supply, includes redux-thunk by default, and enables use of the Redux DevTools Extension.

3. How would I use createSlice()?

- accepts an object of reducer functions, a slice name, and an initial state value, and automatically generates a slice reducer with corresponding action creators and action types.

### MobX

1. What is Mobx?

- is a simple, scalable and battle tested state management solution.

2. How does MobX make it “impossible” to produce an inconsistent state?

- The strategy to achieve that is simple: Make sure that everything that can be derived from the application state, will be derived. Automatically.

3. How would we build a reactive user interface?

- The observer HoC wrapper from the mobx-react-lite package fixes that by basically wrapping the React component in autorun. This keeps the component in sync with the state. This is conceptually not different from what we did with the report before.

### Tutorial

1. What take-away(s) did this tutorial provide?

- I watched the tutorial and it was cool to see them us Vite to for development and how quick it was.
- Call createSlice with a string name, an initial state, and named reducer functions
- Reducer functions may "mutate" the state using Immer
- Export the generated slice reducer and action creators

### Reflection

- ## What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

## Resources:

- Redux Toolkit (RTK)

  - <https://redux-toolkit.js.org/>

- HookState
  - <https://hookstate.js.org/>
