# Class 41

# React Native

### getting started with react native

1. Name three Core Components of React Native and describe what they do.

- < View> A container that supports layout with flexbox, style, some touch handling, and accessibility controls
- < ScrollView> A generic scrolling container that can contain multiple components and views
- < Text>Displays, styles, and nests strings of text and even handles touch events

2. What problem does React Native solve (why call it native)?

- it helps with mobile app development process. It is used to develop applications for Android, Android TV, iOS, macOS, tvOS, Web, Windows and UWP by enabling developers to use the React framework along with native platform capabilities.

3. What are the building blocks of a React Native app? How does that compare to a React app?

- React is a JavaScript library of reusable components designed to create skeletons of the apps, whereas React Native is designed to build native mobile apps with reusable components.

### expo

1. What solution does expo provide? - you can create a project directly in expo.
2. Expo tries to manage as much of the complexity of building apps as possible, which is why we call it the \_\_\_\_ workflow. - "managed"
3. What is the difference between React Native and Expo?

- Expo is a framework to build React Native apps. It is a set with tools and services built for React Native. It will help you begin with building React Native apps with ease. It provides you with a list of tools that simplify the creation and testing of React Native app

### expo snack

1. Checkout this tool. What does snack allow you to do?

- React Native app on its web based editor and instantly preview it on the device with the Expo app or the web based simulator. Snack is one of the many projects from Expo, aimed to make working with React Native and Expo easier.

### ejecting

1. What does “eject” mean within the context of Expo?

- The Expo Eject Step is necessary to eject your app to install any missing native dependencies. Installing the native dependencies is done by our dedicated Steps, such as Install missing Android SDK components and Run CocoaPods install.

2. When should you not eject?

- All you need is to distribute your app in the iTunes Store or Google Play. Expo can build binaries for you in that case. If you eject, we can't automatically build for you any more.
- You are uncomfortable writing native code. Ejected apps will require you to manage Xcode and Android Studio projects.
- You enjoy the painless React Native upgrades that come with Expo. After your app is ejected, breaking changes in React Native will affect your project differently, and you may need to figure them out for your particular situation.
- You require Expo's push notification services. After ejecting, since Expo no longer manages your push credentials, you'll need to manage your own push notification pipeline.
- You rely on asking for help in the Expo community. In your native Xcode and Android Studio projects, you may encounter questions which are no longer within the realm of Expo.

3. Why might you choose to eject?

- Your Expo project needs a native module that Expo doesn't currently support. We're always expanding the Expo SDK, so we hope this is never the case. But it happens, especially if your app has very specific and uncommon native demands.

### extra notes

- If you’re familiar with web development, < View> and < Text> might remind you of HTML! You can think of them as the < div> and < p> tags of application development.

# Tutorial

- react native basics
  - <https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/tutorial>

### Resources:

- <https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started>
- <https://expo.io/>
- <https://snack.expo.io/>
- <https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/expokit/eject>
- <https://facebook.github.io/react-native/>
