# Class 16

## AWS: Cloud Servers

### AWS EC2
1. What is an EC2 Instance?

- Instance types comprise varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity and give you the flexibility to choose the appropriate mix of resources for your applications. Each instance type includes one or more instance sizes, allowing you to scale your resources to the requirements of your target workload.

2. Name 2 use cases for EC2.
  - Hosting environments and Development and Test Environments.
3. Provide 1 reason to use ECS instead of Heroku.
  - 

### EC2 For Humans
1. Where can we find EC2 on the AWS Console?

- You can find it under Products > Management Governance > AWS Management Console

2. Explain the general difference between T2 Micro and XL.

- T2 provides a baseline level of CPU performance with the ability to burst above the baseline when needed.
- T in T2 stands for 'burst' where you can earn burst credits at times when the machine is not utilized that much and you can use those credits if you have traffic spikes. XL is the memory.

3. Explain a “Compute Cycle” to a non-technical friend.
  - it measures how much processing time your app requires on the cloud.


### Elastic Beanstalk

1. What is Elastic Beanstalk?

- Easy to use service that deploys, manages and scales web apps and services for you. Elastic Beanstalk uses managed containers that support environments such as Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS.

2. Describe the relationship between EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk.
  - Elastic Beanstalk sets up an environment for you that can contain a number of EC2 instances. and EC2 allows you to create a server int he AWS cloud.
3. Name some benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk.
  - some befefits are Elastic Beanstalk will handle the rest of the deployment details such as provisioning, loan balancing, auto scaling and application health monitoring. 
  - With Elastic Beanstalk you retain full control over all the AWS resources powering your app.


## Things I want to know more about



Resources

- AWS EC2 - <https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/>
- EC2 For Humans - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lZMkgOMYYIg>
- Elastic Beanstalk - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrwxAScdyT0>
