# Class 06 Notes

## Authentication

### Securing Passwords

1. Explain to a non-technical friend how you would safely hash and store a password.

  - Hashing is the process of transforming any given key or a string of characters into another value.

2. What is Bcrypt?

  - Its an adaptive has functions based on the Blowfish symmetric block cipher cryptographic algorithm and introduces a work factor. Which allows you to determine how expensive the has function will be. 

3. Why might you use something like Bcrypt?

- Bcrypt "IT's SLOW AND STRONG AS HELL". Bcrypt makes it harder for brute force attacks when computers become faster next year we can increase the work factor to balance it out i.e. to make the attack slower.


### Basic Auth

1. What is Basic Authentication?

  - is a method for an HTTP user agent to provide a user 
  name and password when making a request. 

2. What properties are necessary in the header of a Basic Auth request?

- Authorization: Basic <credentials>

3. How are username:password in Basic Auth encoded?

- credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a single colon :.


### OWASP auth cheatsheet

1. Define the authentication process to a non-technical recruiter.

  - Authentication is to verify a single person is who they say they are, it validates the unique user name and password. with each you want to make sure its strong.

2. How should your error messaging respond (both HTTP and HTML)? Why?

  - it should be a generic message that doesnt give out too much info, if the error message is too detailed it could give out hints to the hackers to potentially figure out the log in credentials .

Resources:

- [Securing-Passwords](https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html)
- [Basic-Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)
- [OWASP-auth-cheatsheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Authentication_Cheat_Sheet.html)


## Things I want to know more about
- how to properly inplement the authentication.
