# Class 07 Notes

## Bearer Authorization

### Intro to JWT
1. What is a JSON Web Token (JWT)?

- Its an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed.

2. When should we use JSON Web Tokens?

- Authorization: "This is the most common scenario for using JWT. Once the user is logged in, each subsequent request will include the JWT, allowing the user to access routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that token. Single Sign On is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains."
- Information Exchange: "JSON Web Tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information between parties. Because JWTs can be signed—for example, using public/private key pairs—you can be sure the senders are who they say they are. Additionally, as the signature is calculated using the header and the payload, you can also verify that the content hasn't been tampered with."
- (<https://jwt.io/introduction/>)


3. Claims are expected in which structural component of a JWT?
  - Payload


### Are JWTs Secure?
1. If I get a JWT and I can decode the payload, how can we call that secure?

- JWTs can be either signed, encrypted or both. If a token is signed, but not encrypted, everyone can read its contents, but when you don't know the private key, you can't change it.

2. If sending a JWT, what must sender and receiver both know? Hint, it’s appended in the signature.
  - they need to know the secret

3. Explain how concatenated content and secret can be sent and received securely to a non-technical recruiter.
 

### JWTs Explained
1. Why use JWT?
  - for authentication, its self contained, and it avoids quering the database more than once.
- compact 
  - JWT can be sent via URL,POST request, HTTP Header.
  - Fast Transmission
2. JWT is Compact and self-contained. Describe how this is useful to a non-technical friend.
  - its fast transmission and its a secured way to exchange infomation between two people.
3. What are the three components (the structure) of a JWT signature?
  - Header, Payload, Signature.


Resources:

- [Intro-to-JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction/)
- [Are-JWTs-Secure?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)
- [JWTs-Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=926mknSW9Lo)

## Things I want to know more about
- seeing it used.
