# Class 27

## useState() Hook


### Introducing Hooks

1. What was the motivation for introducing Hooks?

- The motivation for introducing hooks was because it solves a wide variety of unconnected problems in React. Its hard to reuse stateful logic between components, Complex components become hard to understand.

2. What changes are important regarding implementing Hooks versus Component Classes?

- You can try Hooks in a few components without rewriting any existing code, 100% backwards-compatible. Hooks don’t contain any breaking changes.  Hooks provide a more direct API to the React concepts you already know: props, state, context, refs, and lifecycle.

3. Hooks allow you to reuse stateful logic without changing __________.
  - Component Hierarchy


### hooks api

1. Name two rules imposed by React Hook usage.

- Only call Hooks at the top level. Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.
- Only call Hooks from React function components. Don’t call Hooks from regular JavaScript functions. 

2. How would you identify a custom Hook and why might you create one?
  - you would create a custom Hook if you wanted to reuse the same logic in another component.
- Custom Hooks are more of a convention than a feature. If a function’s name starts with ”use” and it calls other Hooks, we say it is a custom Hook. The useSomething naming convention is how our linter plugin is able to find bugs in the code using Hooks.


### the state hook

1. What is a Hook?
    - Hooks are functions that let you "hook into" react state and lifecycle features from function components. They dont work inside of classes.

2. When would I use the useState Hook?

    - If you write a function component and realize you need to add some state to it, previously you had to convert it to a class.
    - You can use the useState Hook to keep track of strings, numbers, booleans, arrays, objects and any combo of those and you can create multiple hooks to track individual values.

3. If you were to add React state to a function component by declaring a state variable:
    1. What does calling useState do?
    - It declares a “state variable”.
    2. What do we pass to useState as an argument?
    - The only argument to the useState() Hook is the initial state.
    3. What does useState return?
    - It returns a pair of values: the current state and a function that updates it.

  - Hooks and Function Components look like this:
    - const Example = (props) => {
        - // You can use Hooks here!
    - return < div />;
}
    - function Example(props) {
      - // You can use Hooks here!
    - return < div />;
}



## Extra Notes:
- Declaring a State Variable

  - In a function component, we have no this, so we can’t assign or read this.state. Instead, we call the useState Hook directly inside our component:
  - import React, { useState } from 'react';
    - function Example() {
      - // Declare a new state variable, which we'll call "count"
    - const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
- Reading State
  - In a function, we can use count directly:
    - < p>You clicked {count} times< /p>
- Updating State
  - In a function, we already have setCount and count as variables so we don’t need this:
    - < button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
    Click me
  </ button>
- We’re calling our variable count because it holds the number of button clicks. We initialize it to zero by passing 0 as the only useState argument. The second returned item is itself a function. It lets us update the count so we’ll name it setCount.
  - const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
- When the user clicks, we call setCount with a new value. React will then re-render the Example component, passing the new count value to it.

- Using multiple state variables:
  - function ExampleWithManyStates() {
    - // Declare multiple state variables!
  - const [age, setAge] = useState(42);
  - const [fruit, setFruit] = useState('banana');
  - const [todos, setTodos] = useState([{ text: 'Learn Hooks' }]);


### Bookmark and Review
- hooks api reference
  - <https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html>
- Introducing Hooks
  - <https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html#motivation>
- Hooks api
  - <https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-overview.html>
- The State Hook
  - <https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html>
