# Class 03 Reading Notes

## Express REST API

### Review: ES6 Classes
1. Classes are a template for creating ____.
  -  Objects
2. Can a class declaration be hoisted?
  -  Yes they can
3. How would you describe a constructor and contextual “this” to a non-technical friend?
- A constructor method is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class. There can only be one special method with the name "constructor" in a class.


### Using Express Routing
1. Within Express, what does routing refer to?
  - It refers to how an applictions endpoints (URIs) respond to a client request.

2. What is the difference between a route path and a route method?
- A route method is derived from one of the HTTP methods, and is attached to an instance of the express class. And route path in combination with a request method, define the endpoints at which requests can be made. Route paths can be strings, string patterns, or regular expressions.

3. When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?
- Its appropriate to add next as a parameter when you want to pass control to the next middleware function. If not the request will be left hanging or open. then you must call next();

### Express Routing
1. What is an Express Router?
- It is a mini express application without all the bells and whistles of an express application, just the routing stuff.

2. By what mean do we initialize express.Router() in an express server?
- define groups of routes let router = express.Router();

3. What do we use route middleware for?

- To do something before a request is processed.things like checking if a user is authenticated, logging data for analytics, or anything else we’d like to do before we actually spit out information to our user.

  - Resources:
- [ES6-Class]<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes>
- [Using-Express-Routing]<https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html>
- [Express-Routing]<https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/learn-to-use-the-new-router-in-expressjs-4>

## Things I want to know more about

 Route path: /users/:userId/books/:bookId
Request URL: http://localhost:3000/users/34/books/8989
req.params: { "userId": "34", "bookId": "8989" }
