# Class 42

## Code of Ethics

### Review at least one article from both “Ethics in the workplace” and “Ethics in Technology” sections below and write how each of them relates to ethics in technology. Do you agree or disagree with these articles? What stuck out to you specifically from each article?

## Ethics in the Workplace

- The code I’m still ashamed of
  - <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e>

This was a very big eye opener of a blog for me. I didnt even think about what your code could actually do to the user on the other end of it. Even if the developer wasnt the one giving the medication, its the fact that the website was set up to push a drug to someone is where it was very unsettling. Its important to read the situation and determine if its personally ethical or not. This would be a tough stop to be in because youre wanting to produce code that your employer is requesting from you because its your job, but at the same time its not right that the it was intended to trick the user. Unfortunately someone died from stumbling upon a website that was only going to recommend one outcome no matter what.

## Ethics in Technology

- Self Driving Car Ethics
  - <https://www.freep.com/story/money/cars/2017/11/21/self-driving-cars-ethics/804805001/>

This is another good read. I think its so hard to be in a position like this. I agree with the Director of Ethics Patrick Lin, "These ethical problems are not just theoretical" who determines which action the car takes in a situation where there is no win. How can we rely on the computer knowing the laws of the road or trust that they will be programmed to never make a mistake on the road. It quickly brings up the question of who is at fault? the self driving vehicle or the human who programmed it? Great read and another big eye opener to think about these things deeper as we become more experienced as software developers.
