# Class 37

## Redux - Combined Reducers

### Multiple Reducers Example

1. Why create multiple reducers? They can respond to the same action, independently update their own slice as needed and the updated slices are combined into the new state object.
2. How would you combine multiple reducers? You define multiple reducers to handle different pieces of your application's state, then compose these reducers together into one root reducer. The root reducer is then passed into the Redux createStore() method. In order to let us combine multiple reducers together, Redux provides the combineReducers() method. -
3. How will you manage state as an immutable object? why?

### Redux Docs: Using Combined Reducers

1. combineReducers is a utility function to simplify the most common use case when writing **\_** . - Redux Reducers.
2. Explain how combineReducers assembles the new state tree. - will call each slice reducer with its current slice of state and the current action, giving the slice reducer a chance to respond and update its slice of state if needed.
3. How would you define initial state in an app using combineReducers? - First, the createStore function can take preloadedState as its second argument.

### Redux Docs: Combined Reducer Syntax

1. Why will you want to split your reducing functions as your app becomes more complex? so it can manage independently, parts of the state.
2. The **\_** helper function turns an object whose values are different reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to \_\_\_\_. The _combineReducers_ helper function, you can pass to _createStore._
3. What is a popular convention when naming reducers? Is to name reducers after the state slices they manage, so you can use ES6 property shorthand notation: combineReducers({ counter, todos }). This is equivalent to writing combineReducers({ counter: counter, todos: todos }).

Resources:

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBER4Or86hE>
- <https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/using-combinereducers/>
- <https://redux.js.org/api/combinereducers/>
