# Class 14
## Trees


### Common Terminology
- Node - A Tree node is a component which may contain its own values, and references to other nodes
- Root - The root is the node at the beginning of the tree
- K - A number that specifies the maximum number of children any node may have in a k-ary tree. In a binary tree, k = 2.
- Left - A reference to one child node, in a binary tree
- Right - A reference to the other child node, in a binary tree
- Edge - The edge in a tree is the link between a parent and child node
- Leaf - A leaf is a node that does not have any children
- Height - The height of a tree is the number of edges from the root to the furthest leaf


### Traversals
An important aspect of trees is how to traverse them. Traversing a tree allows us to search for a node, print out the contents of a tree, and much more! There are two categories of traversals when it comes to trees:

  - Depth First
  - Breadth First

#### Depth
Depth first traversal is where we prioritize going through the depth (height) of the tree first. There are multiple ways to carry out depth first traversal, and each method changes the order in which we search/print the root. Here are three methods for depth first traversal:

  - Pre-order: root >> left >> right
  - Pre-order means that the root has to be looked at first. In our case, looking at the root just means that we output its value. When we call preOrder for the first time, the root will be added to the call stack
  - In-order: left >> root >> right
  - Post-order: left >> right >> root


- The most common way to traverse through a tree is to use recursion. With these traversals, we rely on the call stack to navigate back up the tree when we have reached the end of a sub-path.

#### Breadth First

Breadth first traversal iterates through the tree by going through each level of the tree node-by-node.

- Traditionally, breadth first traversal uses a queue (instead of the call stack via recursion) to traverse the width/breadth of the tree.


#### K-ary Trees
If Nodes are able have more than 2 child nodes, we call the tree that contains them a K-ary Tree. In this type of tree we use K to refer to the maximum number of children that each Node is able to have.
