# Class 38

## Redux - Asynchronous Actions

### async actions

1. Why use Redux middleware?

- middleware can do anything when it sees a dispatched action: log something, modify the action, delay the action, make an async call. You could write some async logic in a middleware, and still have the ability to interact with the Redux store by dispatching actions.

2. Consider the Redux Async Data Flow Diagram. Describe the flow in your own words.

   - we start by handling a user event in the app. ex: onClick on button) we call dispatch() and pass an action obj. or function that the middleware can find. then it reaches our middleware and makes an async call to our backend api and response with the data we are requesting and sends it back to the front end.

3. How are we accommodating async in our Redux app?

### thunk middleware

1. Why would you need redux-thunk middleware? With a plain basic Redux store, you can only do simple synchronous updates by dispatching an action. Middleware extends the store's abilities, and lets you write async logic that interacts with the store. They are recommended middleware for basic redux side effects logic including complex synchronous logice that needs access to the store and simple async logic like AJAX requests.
2. Redux Thunk middleware allows you to write action creators that return a \_\_\_\_ instead of an action. - A function
3. Describe how any return value from the inner thunk function will be made available.

- will be available as the return value of dispatch itself. This is convenient for orchestrating an asynchronous control flow with thunk action creators dispatching each other and returning Promises to wait for each other’s completion:

# Reflection

What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README? full understanding how it works confidently using it.

# Resources

- Async Action
  - <https://redux.js.org/advanced/asyncactions>
- Thunk Middleware
  - <https://github.com/reduxjs/redux-thunk>
