# Class 13

## Message Queues

### Socket.io Chat Example

1. Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.

- creates a room/chat where user can join and connect with anyone in the room.

2. What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

- a user is connected or disconnected.

3. Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

- you would use broadcast
  - socket.broadcast.emit('hello world')

### Rooms

1. What is a room and how might a room be useful?

- a room is a place where sockets can join and leave a channel

2. How do you join a room?

- call join to subscribe the socket to a channel
  - io.on('connection',(socket)=>{
      socket.join('some room');
    });

3. How do you leave a room?

- call leave to leave a room
- socket.leave('some room');

### Namespaces

1. What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

- Its a communication channel that allows you to split the logic of application over a single shared connection ("multiplexing").

2. Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

- Event handlers, rooms, and middleware.

3. Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces

- you want to create a special namespace that only authorized users have access to
- your application has multiple tenants so you want to dynamically create one namespace per tenant

Resources:

- Socket.io Chat Example
  - <https://socket.io/get-started/chat/>
- Rooms
  - <https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms>
- Namespaces
  - <https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/>

## Things I want to know more about
