# Class 18

## AWS: API, Dynamo and Lambda

### AWS API Gateway Overview

1. What is Amazon API Gateway?

- It's a managed service that allows developers to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or a WebSocket API and connect those endpoints with the corresponding backend business logic. It also handles authentication, access control, monitoring, and tracing of API requests.

2. Why is Amazon API Gateway an important part of the Serverless ecosystem?

- It's the piece that ties together the Serverless functions and API definitions. It enables a truly serverless architecture for web applications.

3. How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?

- AWS Lambda: run Lambda functions to generate HTTP API responses.
- AWS SNS: publish SNS notifications when an HTTP API endpoint is accessed.
- Amazon Cognito: provide authentication and authorization for your HTTP APIs.


### AWS API Gateway

1. What are the some benefits of using Amazon API Gateway?

- Efficient API development - Run multiple versions of the same API simultaneously with API Gateway, allowing you to quickly iterate, test, and release new versions. You pay for calls made to your APIs and data transfer out and there are no minimum fees or upfront commitments.
- Performance at any scale - Provide end users with the lowest possible latency for API requests and responses by taking advantage of our global network of edge locations using Amazon CloudFront. Throttle traffic and authorize API calls to ensure that backend operations withstand traffic spikes and backend systems are not unnecessarily called.
- Cost savings at scale - API Gateway provides a tiered pricing model for API requests. With an API Requests price as low as $0.90 per million requests at the highest tier, you can decrease your costs as your API usage increases per region across your AWS accounts.
- Easy monitoring - Monitor performance metrics and information on API calls, data latency, and error rates from the API Gateway dashboard, which allows you to visually monitor calls to your services using Amazon CloudWatch.
- Flexible security controls - Authorize access to your APIs with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and Amazon Cognito. If you use OAuth tokens, API Gateway offers native OIDC and OAuth2 support. To support custom authorization requirements, you can execute a Lambda authorizer from AWS Lambda.
- RESTful API options - Create RESTful APIs using HTTP APIs or REST APIs. HTTP APIs are the best way to build APIs for a majority of use cases—they're up to 71% cheaper than REST APIs. If your use case requires API proxy functionality and management features in a single solution, you can use REST APIs.
- got this info directly from the documentation - <https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/>

2. What two API types might you choose from?

- RESTful APIs and WEBSOCKET APIs

### AWS DynamoDB Guide

1. What is DynamoDB?

- is a hosted NoSQL database offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It offers:
  - reliable performance even as it scales;
  - a managed experience, so you won't be SSH-ing into servers to upgrade the crypto libraries;
  - a small, simple API allowing for simple key-value access as well as more advanced query patterns.

2. Under what circumstances would you recommend DynamoDB over MongoDB?

- Looking for a database to support relatively simple key-value workloads.
- Heavily invested in AWS with no plans to change their deployment environment in the future.


### AWS DynamoDB

1. Explain to a non-technical friend how DynamoDB works.
  - its a NoSQL database that is offereed by Amazon.com and part of Amazon Web Services portfolio.
   uses hashing and B-trees to manage data. Upon entry, data is first distributed into different partitions by hashing on the partition key. Each partition can store up to 10GB of data and handle by default 1,000 write capacity units (WCU) and 3,000 read capacity units (RCU).

### Dynamoose

1. What is Dynamoose?

- It's a modeling tool for Amazon's DynamoDB. Dynamoose is heavily inspired by Mongoose, which means if you are coming from Mongoose the syntax will be very familiar.

2. What are some key features of Dynamoose?

- Type safety
- High level API
- Easy to use syntax
- DynamoDB Single Table Design Support
- Ability to transform data before saving or retrieving items
- Strict data modeling (validation, required attributes, and more)
- Support for DynamoDB Transactions
- Powerful Conditional/Filtering Support
- Callback & Promise support
- AWS Multi-region support


## Things I want to know more about
- this is a really hard topic to wrap my head around. getting a better understanding of how to implement something like this.

Resources: 

- <https://www.serverless.com/amazon-api-gateway>
- <https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/>
- <https://www.dynamodbguide.com/what-is-dynamo-db/>
- <https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/>
- <https://dynamoosejs.com/getting_started/Introduction>
