# Class 02 Notes

## Express, NPM, TDD, CI/CD

### An introduction to NodeJS and Express

1. Explain middleware, answer as though I were a non-technical recruiter.
   - Middleware is a web framework. Its a software that provides common services and capabilities to applications outside what is offered by the operating system.
2. Express the most popular ____ ____.
   - Node Web Framework.
3. Express is “unopinionated.” What does that mean?

   - There are fewer restrictions on how the best way to put components together to achieve a goal. vs Opinionated has a specific way to do something or theres a right way to do a task.
    - It means that you can insert almost any compatible middleware you like into the request handling chain in almost any order you like. You can structure the app in one file or multiple files and using any directory structure.

4. What is a module and why is modularity useful to us as developers?
    - A module is a library/file that you can import into other code using Node's require() functions. Express itself is a module. Its useful for developers because it mminimizes the risk of programming errors and makes it easier to spot errors if any. Its easier to narrow them down to a specific function in that module.

### What is NPM?

1. What version of npm are you running on your machine?
   - 8.13.2
2. What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’ into your node project?

    - npm install jshint

### What is TDD?

1. Explain why tests are important. Please explain as though I were your non technical elder.
   - TDD is important because you can test code in its early stages and the simplest possible to make it pass. it can also improve design qualities in the code.
2. What are three expected benefits of testing

    - Many teams report significant reductions in defect rates, at the cost of a moderate increase in initial development effort
    - The same teams tend to report that these overheads are more than offset by a reduction in effort in projects’ final phases
    - Although empirical research has so far failed to confirm this, veteran practitioners report that TDD leads to improved design qualities in the code, and more generally a higher degree of “internal” or technical quality, for instance improving the metrics of cohesion and coupling

3. Name at lest 2 individual pitfalls and at least 2 team pitfalls commonly encountered while writing tests.
- Individual:
  - Forgetting to run test frequently
  - writing tests that are too large or coarse-grained
- Team:
  - poor maintenance of the test suite – most commonly leading to a test suite with a prohibitively long running time
  - partial adoption – only a few developers on the team use TDD

### CI/CD

1. What are three benefits of Continuous Integration?
    - Lets you catch bugs
    - Reduce merge conflicts
    - it ensures everyones changes integrate

2. What is the difference between Continuos Delivery and Continuous Deployment?
    - Continuos delivery is develop to release at any time
    - Continuous Deployement is an extension of Continuous devlivery and deploy new features immediately. 
    - Continuous delivery lets you develop features with modular code in more manageable increments.

3. Explain how GitHub fits into this process assuming the listener comes from a non-technical background.
    - Github is a clearing house for code, devs make changes locally from their PC and they send those changes up to github when they want to share them with others.
    - Github uses something called Webhooks where it sends messages to external systems about activity in your projects. For each event type it allows you to specify who should receive the message about the event.
    - The Continuos Integration will analyze the message from github and grab a copy of that project, build the branch and run the test. When the server finishes the process for the current commit(recent changes) it sends a message to Github status API that contains the status information about the commit.
    - Github uses that message to display info about that commit, and gives you a clear idea of which changes can or cant be integrated.



## Things I want to know more about
- being able to visualize it happening and getting a deep understanding of the work flow of it and seeing it work.


- Resources: 
 - [Express/Node] <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs/Introduction>
 - [NPM]<https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm>
 - [TDD]<https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/tdd/>
- [CI/CD]<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSv_m3KhUO8>
