# Class 33

## What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC)?

1. What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC)?

- It restricts Network Access based on a person's role within an organization.

2. Share some an example of RBAC including all possible CRUD operations and correlating roles.
   An example of RBAC is :

- admin can read, create, update, delete
- editor can read, create, update
- writer can read, create
- user can read

- Billing – access for one end-user to the billing account.
  Technical – assigned to users that perform technical tasks.
- Administrative – access for users that perform administrative tasks.

3. What are the Benefits of RBAC?

- Reducing administrative work and IT support.
- Maximizing operational efficiency.
- Improving compliance.

Compare and Contrast the following two Libraries and the following questions. Yes, they are similarly named.

## react-cookie library

## react-cookies component

1. Describe some react-cookie features.

- get(name, [ options ])
  - Get a cookie value
  - name (string): cookie name
  - options (object):
    - doNotParse (boolean): do not convert the cookie into an object no matter what
- getAll([ options ])
  - Get all cookies
    - options (object):
      - doNotParse (boolean): do not convert the cookie into an object no matter what
- set(name, value, [ options ])
  - name (string): cookie name
  - value (string|object): save the value and stringify the object if needed
  - options (object): Support all the cookie options from RFC 6265
- remove(name, [options])
  - Remove a cookie
  - name (string): cookie name
  - options (object): Support all the cookie options from RFC 6265

2. Describe some react-cookies features.

- .load(name, [doNotParse])
  - Load the cookie value.
  - Returns undefined if the cookie does not exist.
  - Deserialize any cookie starting with { or [ unless dotNotParse is true.
- .loadAll()
  - Load all available cookies.
  - Returns an object containing all cookies.
- .select([regex])
  - Find all the cookies with a name that match the regex.
  - Returns an object with the cookie name as the key.
- .save(name, value, [options])
  - set a cookie
- .remove(name, [options])
  - Remove a cookie.
- .plugToRequest(req, res): unplug()
- .setRawCookie(cookies)

3. Which library would you prefer would you prefer? Why?

Resources:

- What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC)?
  - <https://digitalguardian.com/blog/what-role-based-access-control-rbac-examples-benefits-and-more>
- react-cookie library
  - <https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-cookie>
- react-cookies component
  - <https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-cookies>
