# Class 12
### CRUD

#### Status Codes Based On REST Methods
- <https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/>
- In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

    - 100’s = Informational codes,the initial part of the request has been received by the server and that the client should proceed with the request or ignore the response if the request has already finished. 
    - 200’s = are success codes that tell the client the request was accepted.
    - 300’s = are redirection codes and lets the client know that the resources they are requesting arent available at expected location anymore.
    - 400’s = client error codes, these let the client know that theres an error. issues with URL, missing authentication, timeouts and such.
    - 500’s = Server error codes, this is due to overwhelmed servers or unreachable servers behind proxies. 
- What is a status code 202?
  - this means that the request met all validation requirements at the time of sending.
- What is a status code 308?
  - 308 Permanent Redirect - This is the right code if the resource will now be available at a new URL and the client should directly access it via the new URL in the future.
- What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?
  - 204 - No Content - A proper code for updates that don’t return data to the client, for example when just saving a currently edited document.
- What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?
  - 401 Gone This is like 404 but we know that the resource existed in the past, but it got deleted or somehow moved, and we don’t know where.
- What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?
  - 403 Forbidden - The client has authorized or doesn’t need to authorize itself, but still has no permissions to access the resource.





- Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
  - 
- What is middleware?
  - 
- What does app.use(express.json()) do?
  - 
- What does the /:id mean in a route?
  - 
- What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?
  - 
- How do you make a default value in a schema?
  - 
- What does a 500 error status code mean?
  - 
- What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
  - 
