## Class 11

### Mongo and Mongoose
#### nosql vs sql
 - <https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool>
1. Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:
  1.  SQL
    - SQL databases are primarily called as Relational Databases.
    - SQL databases are table based databases.
    - SQL databases uses SQL ( structured query language ) for defining and manipulating the data, which is very powerful.
    - SQL databases are vertically scalable. SQL databases are scaled by increasing the horse-power of the hardware. 
    - SQL databases have predefined schema 

  2. NoSQL
    - NoSQL database are primarily called as non-relational or distributed database.
    - NoSQL databases are document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores.
    - NoSQL database, queries are focused on collection of documents. Sometimes it is also called as UnQL (Unstructured Query Language). 
    - NoSQL databases are horizontally scalableNoSQL databases are scaled by increasing the databases servers in the pool of resources to reduce the load.
    - NoSQL databases have dynamic schema for unstructured data.

- What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?
  - non hierarchichal data storage.
- Give a real world example.
  - developing a POS system where you need to store customer orders and product records. (found this on google.)
- What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?
  - NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage as it follows the key-value pair way of storing data similar to JSON data. NoSQL database are highly preferred for large data set (i.e for big data).
- Give a real world example.
  - Employees and their name, hobbies, and contact info. key-value pairs. (like the JSON files we've been working with in class labs.)
- Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?
  - NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage.
- Which type of database is best for scalability?
  - SQL databases. 


#### sql vs nosql 
  - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y>
- What does SQL stand for?
  - Structured Query Language.
- What is a relational database?
  - Databases that store and provide access to data points that are related to one another.
- What type of structure does a relational database work with?
  - Tables, views, and indexes.
- What is a ‘schema’?
  - its a list of logical structures of data, like an id, name, price, description.
- What is a NoSQL database?
  - Non-relational SQL, is a database that stores data in documents rather than relational tables.
- How does it work?
  - it doesnt have tables but it uses collections, and documents.
- What is inside of a Mongo database?
  - Stores data records as documents, it gathers it together in a collection. Its storing one or more collections of docs.
- Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
  - MongoDB is more flexible. Collections do not enforce document structure by default. This flexibility gives you data-modeling choices to match your application and its performance requirements
- What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
  - Schema-less, no or very few relations, queries are less flexible.



## Things I want to know more about
  - Seeing it all in action.
  
