# Class 05
## Putting it all together

### React Docs - Thinking in React

- What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components? 
  - Single Responsibility Principle is a computer programming principle that states that every module, class, or function in a computer program should have responsibility over a single part of that programs functionality and encapsulate that part.
- What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application? 
  - "it will render in the users browser without the need for server side processing, meaning that all the rendering HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is done on the client side, rather then relying on server side technologies."
- Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?
  - render() method.
- What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state? 
  - Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  - Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
  - Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

- How can you identify where state needs to live?
  - Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
  - Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
  - Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
  - If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.


### Higher-Order Functions

- What is a “higher-order function”?
  - Functions that operate on other functions, either by taking them as arguments or by returning them.
- Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?
  - line 2 is checking to see if m is greater than n and checking to see if its true.
- Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.



## Things I want to know more about
- I want to wrap my head around identifying where state needs to live, I still get very confused and want to further my knowledge on this topic.

- Resources:
- <https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html>
- <https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK>
