# Class 06
## NODE.JS
- What is node.js?
  - Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 Javascript engine. its an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google's V8 Javascript engine and libuv library.
- In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?
  - its a programming language engine that runs in chrome based web browsers.
- What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?
  - it means the software stack responsible for installing your web service's code and its dependencies and running your service.
- What is npm?
  - npm is the package manager for Javascript.
- What version of node are you running on your machine?
  - V18.0.0
- What version of npm are you running on your machine?
  -  8.6.0
- What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?
  - npm install -g jshint
- What is node used for?
  - its designed to automate the process of developing a modern Javascript application.


## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming
- What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?
  1. Greater efficiency - this allows for catching mistakes a lot easier and produces higher quality code.
  2. Engaged collaboration - this engagins both programmers to be more focused than working individually. This also allows you bounce off ideas to eacho other.
  3. Learning from fellow students - this helps with comprehending a concept from a differe POV. Sometimes it helps hearing it from someone else for it to click.
  4. Social Skills - Communication is key, this will help with being able to communicate with anyone on any team, and being comfortable with adapting to different personalities.
  5. Job Interview readiness - this will help with showcasing your communication skills and how you work in a team setting for debugging, code challenges and building project. pair programming helps build that confidence with working with teams, and employers look for that, sometimes more than technical skills.
  6. Work Environment readiness - when you get your first job in tech or whether this is your 5th job in tech, we will already be acustome to working with other fellow programmers, and feel comfortable in adapting to different personalities.
- In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?
  - engaging in collaboration, I have found this to be the most beneficial experience, because it allows us to break this matter at hand down and bounce ideas off each other and learn from each others styles.
- How does pair programming work?
  - pair programming has a driver and a navigator, this allows one person to get practice typing out code and getting the syntax down, and the navigator gets to practice with speaking code out loud and practicing directing someone in code. This helps both parties get the over all practice with doing both. Pair Programming I feel strengthens the ability to write better code, follow instructions, and allows you to become more fluent in the language being worked on.

## Things I want to know more about
- I want to build my knowledge even further in node.js and npm.


- Resources:
- <https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/>
- <https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/>
