# Class08
## Functional Programming

- What is functional programming?
  - Its a programming paradigm — a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs — that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data — Wikipedia
- What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?
  - It returns the same result if given the same arguments (it is also referred as deterministic). It does not cause any observable side effects
- What are the benefits of a pure function?
  - Pure functions are stable, consistent, and predictable. Given the same parameters, pure functions will always return the same result. We don’t need to think of situations when the same parameter has different results — because it will never happen.
  - Its easier to test.
- What is immutability?
  - Unchanging over time or unable to be changed. Its state cannot change after its created.
- What is Referential transparency?
  - if a function consistently yields the same result for the same input, it is referentially transparent.
  - pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency


## Node JS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require()
- What is a module?
  - A module is another javascript file.
- What does the word ‘require’ do?
  -  Require executes another JS file from a differnt module. It reads a JavaScript file, executes it, and then proceeds to return the export object
- How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?
  - you need to type module.exports and set it equal to whatever we want to be made available outside of the module youre working on.
- What do we have to do to make a module available?
  - module.exports = whatever youre wanting to export.


- Resources:
  - <https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa>
  - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k>
