# Class 10

## In memory storage

### Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack
- What is a ‘call’?
  - A call is to invoke a function, to 'Call' a function
- How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?
  - only one at a time, from top to bottom and it means the call stack is synchronous.
- What does LIFO mean?
  - Last In, First Out.
- Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.
  - <https://cdn-media-1.freecodecamp.org/images/QgR2uIk7tW0YNz0Xm8g0jAPeRFI0e4sCejsv>
  - function firstFunction(){
  console.log("Hello from firstFunction");
}

- function secondFunction(){
  firstFunction();
  console.log("The end from secondFunction");
}

- secondFunction();

- What causes a Stack Overflow?
  - A stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. The browser (hosting environment) has a maximum stack call that it can accomodate before throwing a stack error.
    - ex: function callMyself(){
  callMyself();
}
callMyself();


  ### JavaScript error messages

- What is a ‘reference error’?
  - when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared.
- What is a ‘syntax error’?
  - when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax, like when you try to parse an invalid object using JSON.parse.
- What is a ‘range error’?
  - Try to manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length and this kind of errors will show up.
- What is a ‘type error’?
  - when the types (number, string and so on) you are trying to use or access are incompatible, like accessing a property in an undefined type of variable.
- What is a breakpoint?
  - Breakpoint makes your program stop at that point only if a condition is met.
- What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?
  - it adds a breakpoint



## Things I want to know more about
- debugging for life, I want to get better at debugging! Cant wait to learn more.


- Resources:
  - <https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c?gi=3a68739c47c9>
  - <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4>
